---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle:  Configuration Parameters (1.3)
title: Configuration Parameters (1.3)
menuWeight: 0
excerpt:
featureMaturity:
enterprise: true
---




Here are the DC/OS cluster configuration parameters. The DC/OS build uses these parameters to create a customized install.

#### Top-level parameters

*   [bootstrap_url][1]
*   [cluster_name][2]
*   [docker_remove_delay][3]
*   [exhibitor_storage_backend][4]
*   [gc_delay][5]
*   [master_discovery][6] 
*   [num_masters][7]

*   [release_name][8] <!-- Deprecated CM3 - [repository_url](#repository-url) -->

*   [resolvers][9]

#### Examples

*   [Example configuration files][10]

<a name="bootstrap-url"></a>bootstrap_url <!-- optional -->

: This parameter specifies the location for the DC/OS installer to store the customized DC/OS build files. This location can be local (`"bootstrap_url":"file:///tmp/dcos"`) or hosted (`http://<your-web-server>`).

<a name="cluster-name"></a>cluster_name

:   This parameter specifies the name of your cluster. For example, `"cluster_name": "zk-example"`.

<a name="docker-remove"></a>docker_remove_delay <!-- optional -->

: This parameter specifies the amount of time to wait before removing the Docker image generated by the installer. It is recommended that you accept the default value 1 hour.

<a name="exhibitor-storage"></a>exhibitor_storage_backend

:   This parameter specifies the name of Exhibitor storage backend. During DC/OS installation, a storage system is required for configuring and orchestrating Zookeeper with Exhibitor on the master nodes. Exhibitor automatically configures your Zookeeper installation on the master nodes during your DC/OS installation. The available options are `zookeeper`, `aws_s3`, and `shared_filesystem`:

*   zookeeper
    :   *   exhibitor_zk_hosts
            :   This parameter specifies a comma-separated list of one or more Zookeeper node IP addresses to use for configuring the internal Exhibitor instances. Exhibitor uses this Zookeeper cluster to orchestrate it's configuration.
        
        *   exhibitor_zk_path
            :   This parameter specifies the filepath that Exhibitor uses to store data, including the zoo.cfg file.
    
    Here is a zookeeper example:
    
        "exhibitor_storage_backend": "zookeeper",
            "exhibitor_zk_hosts": "10.10.10.1:2181",
            "exhibitor_zk_path": "/zk-example"
        

*   aws_s3 :
    
    *   aws_access_key_id
        :   This parameter specifies AWS key ID.
    
    *   aws_region
        :   This parameter specifies AWS region for your S3 bucket.
    
    *   aws_secret_access_key
        :   This parameter specifies AWS secret access key.
    
    *   s3_bucket
        :   This parameter specifies name of your S3 bucket.
    
    *   s3_prefix
        :   This parameter specifies S3 prefix to be used within your S3 bucket to be used by Exhibitor.
        
        Here is an aws_s3 example:
        
        "exhibitor_storage_backend": "aws_s3", "aws_access_key_id": "AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE", "aws_secret_access_key": "wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY", "aws_region": "us-west-2", "s3_bucket": "mybucket", "s3_prefix": "s3-example"
    
    *   shared_filesystem :
        
        *   exhibitor_fs_config_dir : This parameter specifies the absolute path to the folder that Exhibitor uses to coordinate its configuration. This should be a directory inside of a Network File System (NFS) mount. For example, if every master has `/fserv` mounted via NFS, set as `"exhibitor_fs_config_dir": "/fserv/dcos-exhibitor"`.
        
        **Important:** With `shared_filesystem`, all masters must must have the NFS volume mounted and `exhibitor_fs_config_dir` must be inside of it. If any of your servers are missing the mount, the DC/OS cluster will not start.
        
        Here is a shared_filesystem example:
        
            "exhibitor_storage_backend": "shared_filesystem",
             "exhibitor_fs_config_dir": "/shared-mount"
            

<a name="gc-delay"></a>gc_delay <!-- optional -->

: This parameter specifies th maximum amount of time to wait before cleaning up the executor directories. It is recommended that you accept the default value of 2 days.

<a name="master"></a>master_discovery

:   This parameter specifies the Mesos master discovery method:

*   cloud_dynamic <!-- It only does stuff for AWS, Azure currently. Cody 10/21/15 -->
    
    
    :   For AWS CloudFormation template only: Use an external proxy for the masters that lives at a static IP, for example, haproxy or NGINX. For example, `"master_discovery":"cloud_dynamic"`.

*   static
    :   Use the Mesos agents to discover the masters by giving each agent a static list of master IPs. The masters must not change IP addresses, and if a master is replaced, the new master must take the old master's IP address. For example, `"master_discovery":"static"`.
    
    *   master_list : Specify a JSON-formatted list of your static master IP addresses. This must be specified in JSON list format. For example, `"master_list": "["172.17.10.101", "172.17.10.102", "172.17.10.103"]"`.
*   vrrp
    :   Use keepalived with a VIP. You are required to maintain this VIP infrastructure. For example, `"master_discovery":"vrrp"`.
    
    *   keepalived_router_id
        :   Specify the virtual router ID of the keepalived cluster. You must use the same virtual router ID across your cluster. For example, `"keepalived_router_id":"51"`.
    
    *   keepalived_interface
        :   Specify the interface that keepalived uses. For example, `"keepalived_interface":"eth1"`.
    
    *   keepalived_pass
        :   If you've set your auth to PASS, specify the same password that you set in your configuration file. For example, `"keepalived_pass":"$MY_STRONG_PASSWORD"`.
    
    *   keepalived_virtual_ipaddress
        :   Specify the VIP in use by your keepalived cluster. For example, `"keepalived_virtual_ipaddress":"67.34.242.55"`.

<a name="num-masters2"></a>num_masters

:   This parameter specifies the number of Mesos masters in your DC/OS cluster. For example, `"num_masters": 3`.

<a name="resolvers"></a>resolvers

:   This required parameters specifies a JSON-formatted list of DNS resolvers for your DC/OS host nodes or accept the default value of `["8.8.8.8"]`. Set this parameter to the most authoritative nameservers that you have. If you want to resolve internal hostnames, set it to a nameserver that can resolve them. If you have no internal hostnames to resolve, it is acceptable to set this to a public nameserver like Google or AWS. For example, `"resolvers": "["8.8.8.8", "8.8.4.4"]"`.
    
    *Caution:* If you set the `resolvers` parameter incorrectly, you will permanently damage your configuration and have to reinstall DCOS.

<a name="roles"></a>roles

:   This parameter specifies the Mesos roles to delegate to this node or accept the default value of `"slave_public"`:

*   slave_public : Runs the public agent node. This is the default value. For example, `"roles":"slave_public"`.
*   master : Runs the master node. For example, `"roles":"master"`.
*   slave : Runs the private agent node. For example, `"roles":"slave"`.

For more information, see <a href="https://open.mesosphere.com/reference/mesos-master/#roles" target="_blank">Mesos roles</a>.

<a name="weights"></a>weights
<!-- optional -->
:   This parameter specifies the priority of the role or accept the default value of `"weights": "slave_public=1"`. For more information, see <a href="https://open.mesosphere.com/reference/mesos-master/#weights" target="_blank">Mesos weights</a>.

## <a name="examples"></a>Example JSON configuration files

#### <a name="zk"></a>DC/OS cluster with 3 masters, Exhibitor/Zookeeper backed by another Zookeeper instance, Google DNS

    {
        "cluster_name": "zk-example",
        "num_masters": 3,
        "exhibitor_storage_backend": "zookeeper",
        "exhibitor_zk_hosts": "10.10.10.1:2181",
        "exhibitor_zk_path": "/zk-example",
        "bootstrap_url":"file:///tmp/dcos",
        "master_discovery":"vrrp",
        "keepalived_router_id":"51",
        "keepalived_interface":"eth1",
        "keepalived_pass":"$MY_STRONG_PASSWORD",
        "keepalived_virtual_ipaddress":"67.34.242.55",
        "resolvers": "["8.8.8.8", "8.8.4.4"]",
        "roles": "slave_public",
        "weights": "slave_public=1"
    }
    

#### <a name="shared"></a>DC/OS cluster with 3 masters, Exhibitor/Zookeeper backed by a shared filesystem mount, Internal DNS

    {
        "cluster_name": "fs-example",
        "num_masters": 3,
        "exhibitor_storage_backend": "shared_filesystem",
        "exhibitor_fs_config_dir": "/shared-mount",
        "bootstrap_url":"file:///tmp/dcos",
        "resolvers": "["10.10.5.1", "10.10.6.1"]",
        "roles": "slave_public",
        "weights": "slave_public=1"
    }
    

#### <a name="aws"></a>DC/OS Cluster with 3 masters, Exhibitor/Zookeeper backed by an AWS S3 bucket, and AWS DNS

    {
        "cluster_name": "s3-example",
        "num_masters": 3,
        "exhibitor_storage_backend": "aws_s3",
        "aws_access_key_id": "AKIAIOSFODNN7EXAMPLE",
        "aws_secret_access_key": "wJalrXUtnFEMI/K7MDENG/bPxRfiCYEXAMPLEKEY",
        "aws_region": "us-west-2",
        "s3_bucket": "mybucket",
        "s3_prefix": "s3-example",
        "bootstrap_url":"file:///tmp/dcos",
        "resolvers": "["169.254.169.253"]",
        "roles": "slave_public",
        "weights": "slave_public=1"
    }

 [1]: #bootstrap-url
 [2]: #cluster-name
 [3]: #docker-remove
 [4]: #exhibitor-storage
 [5]: #gc-delay
 [6]: #master
 [7]: #num-masters2
 [8]: #release-name
 [9]: #resolvers
 [10]: #examples