---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: dcos storage provider modify
title: dcos storage provider modify
menuWeight: 0
notes: Code generated by docgen.go, DO NOT EDIT
enterprise: true
origin: github.com/mesosphere/dcos-storage/cli/pkg/cmd/cmd_provider_modify.go
excerpt: Modify a new volume provider.
---

## dcos storage provider modify

Modify a new volume provider.

### Synopsis

Arguments:

    <path>    A URL or local path to the volume provider configuration JSON. If
              this is omitted the volume provider configuration JSON is read
              from STDIN.

For more information regarding volume providers and when you would use them, run
`dcos storage provider --help`. The following section assumes that you are
familiar with them and will describe how to modify the plugin configuration of
a provider once it has been created.

You modify a volume provider by passing a JSON document to this command. The
JSON configuration is read from `<path>` or from `STDIN` if no `<path>` is
specified.

The modify configuration consists of multiple fields: `name` and `spec`.

The `provider modify` command supports a subset of the configuration fields
that the `provider create` command supports. Specifically, you cannot modify
the `description`, `spec.plugin`, `spec.node`, and `spec.labels` fields that
were set during `provider create`. You can only modify the
`spec.plugin-configuration` field.

The `name` field uniquely identifies the volume provider. It must match the
name of an existing provider. This field is required.

The `spec` field is itself a nested structure containing the following fields:
`plugin`, and `plugin-configuration`. At least one of `plugin` or
`plugin-configuration` must be given. This field is required.

The `spec.plugin` field is itself a nested structure containing the following
field: `config-version`. This field is optional. If it is not provided the
provider's plugin configuration is not modified.

The `spec.plugin.config-version` field specifies the plugin configuration
version to use. You can specify the version of the plugin configuration that
you want your provider to run. It can be an integer matching the desired plugin
configuration version or you can specify the string "latest" in which case the
newest plugin configuration version for the provider's plugin is substituted.

The `spec.plugin-configuration` field is plugin specific. Consult the supported
configuration items under the `Volume Plugins` section of the DC/OS Storage
Service documentation (<https://docs.mesosphere.com/services/storage/>).
This field is optional. If it is not provided the provider's
plugin-configuration field is not modified.

Here is an example of the configuration JSON a "lvm" volume provider that is
being modified. In this example, the `lvm-ssds` provider used to be configured
with the `xvdb` device. It is now being reconfigured to use to `xvdc` device,
too. It is also being updated to the latest version of the "lvm" plugin
configuration.

```json
{
    "name": "lvm-ssds",
    "spec": {
        "plugin": {
            "config-version": "latest"
        },
        "plugin-configuration": {
            "devices": ["xvdb", "xvdc"]
        }
    }
}
```


```bash
dcos storage provider modify [<path>] [flags]
```

### Examples

1. Modify a LVM volume group called `volume-group-1` from configuration in a local file called `provider.json`:

```bash
cat provider.json
```
```
{
    "name": "volume-group-1",
    "spec": {
        "plugin-configuration": {
            "devices": ["xvdb", "xvdc"]
        }
    }
}
```
```bash
dcos storage provider modify provider.json
```
```
Successfully modified "volume-group-1"
```

2. Modify a LVM volume group called `volume-group-1` from configuration passed on stdin:

```bash
cat <<EOF | dcos storage provider modify
{
    "name": "volume-group-1",
    "spec": {
        "plugin-configuration": {
            "devices": ["xvdb", "xvdc"]
        }
    }
}
EOF
Successfully modified "volume-group-1"
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

Name | Description
--- | ---
`-h`,`--help` | Help for this command.
`--timeout` duration | Override the default operation timeout. (default 55s)
`-v`,`--verbose` | Verbose mode.

