---
layout: layout.pug
title: DC/OS Enterprise
navigationTitle: DC/OS Enterprise
menuWeight: 30
excerpt:

enterprise: true
---

DC/OS Enterprise is designed to be configured, deployed, managed, scaled, and upgraded on any cluster of physical or virtual machines. You can install DC/OS in the environment of your choice by using a customized setup file or cloud templates.

# Deploy using a Setup File
The DC/OS Enterprise setup file is generated by using specific parameters that are set in your configuration file. This installation file contains a Bash install script and a Docker container that is loaded with everything you need to deploy a customized DC/OS build. The DC/OS setup file can be deployed using these methods:

## GUI Installer
The [GUI installer](/1.9/installing/ent/custom/gui/) provides a simple graphical interface that guides you through the installation of DC/OS. The GUI installer provides a basic installation that is suitable for demonstrations and POCs. A shared SSH key is required for this method.
  
## CLI Installer
The [CLI installer](/1.9/installing/ent/custom/cli/) provides a guided installation of DC/OS from the command line. With this method you can choose from the complete set of DC/OS configuration options. A shared SSH key is required for this method.
  
## Advanced Installer
The [advanced installer](/1.9/installing/ent/custom/advanced/) provides a scriptable, automatable interface to integrate with your preferred configuration management system. With this installation method, you package the DC/OS distribution yourself and connect to every node manually to run the DC/OS installation commands. This installation method is recommended if you want to integrate with an existing system or if you don’t have SSH access to your cluster.

# Deploy using Cloud Templates
DC/OS offers configurable cloud provisioning templates for AWS that manage a DC/OS installation on virtual machines. The DC/OS templates for AWS CloudFormation bring power and flexibility to creating and extending DC/OS clusters. For more information, see the [documentation](/1.9/installing/ent/cloud/aws/).

## Local Installer
The [local installer](/1.9/installing/ent/local/) deploys DC/OS with Vagrant. This method is designed for first-time users or developers looking to build services or modify DC/OS. The Vagrant installer provides a quick, free way to deploy a virtual cluster on a single machine.
