---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: dcos storage profile create
title: dcos storage profile create
menuWeight: 0
notes: Code generated by docgen.go, DO NOT EDIT
enterprise: true
origin: github.com/mesosphere/dcos-storage/cli/pkg/cmd/cmd_profile_create.go
excerpt: Create a volume profile.
---

## dcos storage profile create

Create a volume profile.

### Synopsis

Arguments:

    <path>    A URL or local path to the volume profile configuration JSON. If
              this is omitted the volume profile configuration JSON is read
              from STDIN.

Read more about volume profiles and when you would use them by running
`dcos storage profile --help`. In what follows we'll assume you are familiar
with them and will describe their configuration and give some examples.

Because agents and volumes can come and go in a distributed system it may be
difficult to ensure a change or delete operation has completed successfully. For
this reason profiles cannot be changed once they have been created (i.e., they
are immutable) and they also cannot be removed.

Instead of removing a volume profile, you can deactivate a volume profile. No
new volumes can be associated with a volume profile that has been deactivated.

The volume profile configuration must be a JSON document and supports the
following fields: `name`, `description`, `provider-selector` and
`volume-configuration`.

The `name` field uniquely identifies the volume profile throughout the DC/OS
cluster. It is a string of up to 128 characters. The name must consist of the
characters from `[A-Za-z0-9\-]`, and must start with a letter. This field is
required.

The `description` field lets you specify a human-readable description for the
volume profile to add some extra context. This is a string of up to 512
characters. This field is optional.

The `spec` field is itself a nested structure. It contains the
`provider-selector`, `volume-configuration` and one of either the `block` or
`mount` fields.

The `spec.provider-selector` field is itself a nested structure that selects
which volume providers volumes of this volume profile can be allocated from. The
`provider-selector` field has the following fields: `plugin` and `matches`. This
field is required.

The `spec.provider-selector.plugin` field selects a single plugin and only
volume providers from that plugin can be used to create volumes that fit this
volume profile. This field is required.

The `spec.provider-selector.matches` field further restricts the volume
providers which can be used to create volume that fit this volume profile. This
field consists of key-value pairs that must match those configured in the `spec`
field of the volume providers. If a volume provider does not specify one of the
key-value pairs given in the `matches` field it cannot be used to create volumes
that fit this volume profile. If the `spec` field of a volume provider specifies
all the key-value pairs listed in the `matches` field, as well as some
additional key-value pairs, it matches the volume profile and can be used to
create volumes that fit it. This field is optional.

The `spec.volume-configuration` field provides parameters that override the
plugin defaults when volumes of this volume profile are created. The available
parameters are plugin-specific and are described on the documentation page for
the specific plugin, <https://docs.mesosphere.com/storage/latest/volume-plugins/>.
This field is optional.

Exactly one of `spec.block` or `spec.mount` must be specified.

If the `spec.block` field is specified volumes created using the profile will
present as raw linux block devices to your application and will not be
automatically formatted. The `spec.block` field accepts an empty `{}` as value
as it does not currently support any type of configuration.

If the `spec.mount` field is specified volumes created using the profile will be
formatted with a file system and will present as a mounted file system to your
application. The `spec.mount` field value is a nested object with a single,
optional field called `filesystem`. If `spec.mount.filesystem` is specified
volumes will be formatted with the specified file system. If it is not specified
volumes will be formatted with the default file system. The examples illustrate
all three possibilities.

```bash
dcos storage profile create [<path>] [flags]
```

### Examples

1. Create a volume profile called `logs` from the configuration in profile.json to create volumes formatted with the default file system:

```bash
cat profile.json
```
```
{
    "name": "logs",
    "description": "spun down drives for log archives",
    "spec": {
        "provider-selector": {
            "plugin": "lvm",
            "matches": {
                "labels": {
                    "rotational": "true"
                }
            }
        },
        "mount": {}
    }
}
```
```bash
dcos storage profile create profile.json
```

2. Create a volume profile called `safe` for LVM volumes from configuration passed on stdin to create volumes formatted with the `xfs` file system:

```bash
cat <<EOF | dcos storage profile create
{
    "name": "safe",
    "description": "Volumes backed by RAID-1 devices.",
    "spec": {
        "provider-selector": {
            "plugin": "lvm",
            "matches": {
                "labels": {"raid": "1"}
            }
        },
        "mount": {"filesystem": "xfs"}
    }
}
EOF
```

3. Create a volume profile called `old` for LVM volumes from configuration passed on stdin to create unformatted volumes that will present as linux block devices to your application:

```bash
cat <<EOF | dcos storage profile create
{
    "name": "old",
    "description": "Volumes on LVM VG's labelled as 'old'.",
    "spec": {
        "provider-selector": {
            "plugin": "lvm",
            "matches": {
                "labels": {"old": "true"}
            }
        },
        "block": {}
    }
}
EOF
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

Name | Description
--- | ---
`-h`,`--help` | Help for this command.
`--timeout` duration | Override the default operation timeout. (default 55s)
`-v`,`--verbose` | Verbose mode.

