---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle: CLI References
title: CLI References
menuWeight: 60
notes: Code generated by docgen.go, DO NOT EDIT
enterprise: true
---
## dcos storage

Manage storage volumes, volume profiles and volume providers.

### Synopsis

You must configure a volume provider and a volume profile before creating a
volume. A volume provider manages storage capacity offered by a CSI plugin to
the DC/OS cluster through a DC/OS Storage Plugin. A DC/OS Storage Plugin
consists of a CSI plugin along with some code that integrates it into DC/OS. A
volume provider that specifies its plugin as "lvm" is referred to as an "lvm"
volume provider.

A volume profile represents volume configurations based on volume provider,
volume parameters, and/or labels. For example, if you want to differentiate
between HDDs and SSDs for different purposes you can create a `fast` volume
profile that identifies your SSDs and a `slow` volume profile that identifies
your HDDs. If your framework is Cassandra, then it distinguishes between "cache"
and "archive" storage. You can then configure it to map your `fast` volume
profile to Cassandra's "cache" storage and your `slow` volume profile to
Cassandra's "archive" storage.

Once you have configured a volume provider (e.g., an LVM2 volume group) and a
volume profile (e.g., `all-ssds`) you use the `dcos storage volume ...`
sub-command to create and manage volumes.

```bash
dcos storage [flags]
```

### Options

```bash
  --info   Display binary info
```

### Options inherited from parent commands

```bash
  -h, --help   Help for this command.
```

### SEE ALSO

* [dcos](/latest/cli/command-reference/dcos/)	 - Manage DC/OS environment.
* [dcos storage device](./dcos-storage-device/)	 - Manage physical devices.
* [dcos storage profile](./dcos-storage-profile/)	 - Manage volume profiles.
* [dcos storage provider](./dcos-storage-provider/)	 - Manage volume providers.
* [dcos storage version](./dcos-storage-version/)	 - Display version information.
* [dcos storage volume](./dcos-storage-volume/)	 - Manage volumes.

