---
layout: layout.pug
navigationTitle:  Release Notes for 1.1.0
title: Release Notes for 1.1.0
menuWeight: 5
beta: false
excerpt: View release-specific information for Dispatch
---

# Release Notes

[button color="purple" href="https://support.d2iq.com/s/entitlement-based-product-downloads"]Download Dispatch [/button]

<p class="message--note"><strong>NOTE: </strong>You must be a registered user and signed on to the support portal to download this product. For new customers, contact your sales representative or <a href="mailto:sales@d2iq.com">sales@d2iq.com</a> before attempting to download Dispatch.</p>

## v1.1.0 - Released 24 April 2020

This document describes the new features, caveats, and resolved issues in D2iQ Dispatch.

### Frontend Languages

| Frontend Language | Version |
| ------------------ | ------- |
|Starlark | 0.5 |
|CUE | 0.2 |
|YAML | 0.2 |
|JSON | 0.2 |

### Improvements

* Starlark frontend now supports imports.
* EXPERIMENTAL Starlark standard libraries via the [Dispatch Catalog](https://github.com/mesosphere/dispatch-catalog) for Dispatchfiles.
* Added support for lambdas and nested function definitions in Starlark.
* Added Dispatchfile versioning to improve backward compatibility.
* Preserved artifacts generated by failed tasks.
* Enable MinIO scaling & HA capabilities.
* Added Dispatch dashboard to UI
* PipelineRun viewable in Dispatch dashboard.
* Standard output from steps now produces result variables that can be consumed by other tasks.
* Adopted Tekton v1beta1 API.
* Supported private repository authentication from the CLI.
* Added `dispatch ci artifacts list` and `dispatch ci artifacts fetch` commands to list and fetch artifacts of a 
pipeline.
* Added `dispatch ci gen-doc` command to generate documentation from Starlark files.
* `dispatch ci run remote` now supports `--dry-run` to print resulting Tekton YAML manifests.
* `dispatch ci list pipelineruns` and `dispatch ci list tasks --pipelinerun=<name>` now shows the status of the taskruns.
* Periodically garbage-collect persistent task logs.
* Added options to skip TLS verifications for self-signed certificates.
* Added GitopsRepository CRD.
* Added `dispatch gitops cert` command and new options to `dispatch gitops creds` command to manage Git server TLS certificates and SSH known hosts for ArgoCD.
* Upgraded Tekton to v0.11.1.
* Upgraded ArgoCD to v1.5.2.

### Caveats

* `dispatch ci run remote` now requires `--service-account` to be specified and no longer defaults to build-bot.
* `dispatch ci run` now requires `--task` to be specified.
* The `dispatch ci list pipelineruns` and `dispatch ci list tasks` commands of older versions of Dispatch CLI (1.0.0 or earlier) no longer work with Dispatch 1.1.0 installations. New CLI command is backwards compatible with older installations.

### Resolved Issues

* Dispatch now correctly prints line numbers for errors in CUE based Dispatchfiles.
* dindTask Starlark library function now allows custom entrypoints.
* `dispatch gitops app create` no longer overwrites argocd-secret.
* `update-gitops-repo` no longer fails when the specified branch already exists.
* Secrets can now be used to checkout source code residing in a Gitlab repository.
* update-gitops-repo now supports Gitops repositories hosted on GitLab.
* Users can now delete secrets created by CLI through Dispatch UI.
* Fixed status reporting on pull requests where the repository owner or repository name contains non-alphanumeric characters.
* Fixed UI failures when secrets or service accounts are missing.
* Re-run pipelines now includes correct dashboard links in Dispatch UI.
* Nolonger required to specify -n dispatch for `dispatch ci list` command.
* Re-run pipelines now includes correct dashboard links in commit status reports.
* Listing pipelineruns using `dispatch ci list pipelineruns` now honors user RBAC.


### Installation

To install the `1.1` release in Konvoy, update the `configVersion` for `https://github.com/mesosphere/kubeaddons-dispatch` in your `cluster.yaml` after running `konvoy init`.

Update the following snippet from `cluster.yaml`:

```
  - configRepository: https://github.com/mesosphere/kubeaddons-dispatch
    configVersion: stable-1.16-1.0.1
    addonsList:
    - name: dispatch
      enabled: false
```

It should read:

```
  - configRepository: https://github.com/mesosphere/kubeaddons-dispatch
    configVersion: stable-1.16-1.1.0
    addonsList:
    - name: dispatch
      enabled: true
```

